I know you probably feel like
you've had enough lists, but
there's still one more
list I do wanna cover.
I think it's a very fantastic list,
it's one of my favorite lists,
I use it all the time.
I tried to make a PR once to an open
source library a while back,
that wasn't using one.
And it would just cause terrible
performance, and they didn't accept my PR,
but I do think I was right on doing it,
and of course, that is array buffers.
I've created bajillions of these, I've
created a bunch of them just this year.
It's a very fancy word, but
it's not actually all that confusing.
So let's go over an array buffer.
I just love them, they're just the best.
I believe these are used, if you're
familiar with Rust, VecDeque or DequeVec,
that's what they are as
a double-ended ring buffer.
So effectively, you can think the exact
same thing as an ArrayList, right,
where you have 0 to N.
And you have some sort
of array-like storage.
The only difference is that we're
not using 0 as our head, and
length as our tail.
That's what's happening in ArrayList,
you can kind of imagine
it kind of a LinkedList.
Instead, what we're gonna have is we
can literally have index based head,
and we can have index based tail.
And so
they exist somewhere within the list.
Or you could imagine everything
this direction is null,
everything this direction is null.
And everything within the head and
the tail are the items that you have.
So if you wish to remove from the front,
what do you do?
You just +1 to the head.
And now, that item that was
the head is no longer in there,
we clean it up, return it out,
and now we have a new one.
So that is an O(1) operation,
which is fantastic.
Same thing with tail, if you wanted to
add to the tail, what would you do?
Just add 1 to the tail, right?
This is just tail + 1.
Boom, and now we've updated it.
So pushing, popping, shifting, unshifting,
all are O(1) operations,
which is fantastic.
You guys are so astute,
I can just see the astuteness.
And you're saying, well, checkmate,
instructor, what if you go off the edge?
Well, that's why they're
called ring buffers, people,
is that you can actually go,
[SOUND] right, the modulo operator, right?
So tail,
this.tail modulo length gives you your
index into the array, so
you can ring around it.
So your head can literally be on this
side, and your tail can be over here, and
you still have the same thing.
Now, if you need to resize, that's where
things get a little bit confusing, right?
By the way, is everyone familiar
with the modulo operator?
Modulo operator is the remainder operator,
so 5 divided by 2, the answer should be 2.
TypeScript rots your brain so
much, you're like 2.5.
It's like, no, it's 2 remainder 1, right?
So 5 modulo 2 is 1, right?
That's the answer.
Most languages don't convert from integers
to floats without your permission.
You need to say, hey,
this is now officially a float,
you can put a point in there.
So anyways,
this does the remainder afterwards.
So you can imagine if tail,
let's say if you had an array,
say size 10, and your tail was 12.
12 modulo 10, 2,
your tail would be right here.
And if your head was say 24,
let's just say it's 24.
Somehow it's bigger than your tail,
don't ask questions,
it's just somehow bigger than your tail.
24 modulo 10, of course, that's 4.
So your head would be here at 4,
your tail will be at 2,
that means you're using from 4 until 2,
right?
So that makes sense, right?
You can actually go around,
it's a little ring around.
The only problem happens is when
your tail exceeds your head.
Once that happens, I mean, a,
you're probably falling down some stairs.
But b, what actually is happening
is that you need to resize.
And so this is where a little
bit of the trickiness comes in.
Because one thing that's inherent about
ring buffers is they also maintain order.
So when you shift or unshift,
you're not just getting any element,
you're getting the element that
was last added into the front or
perhaps the first element added, right?
So if you're only adding to the tail and
removing from the front,
you're just simply creating a queue,
right?
That's all you're doing,
a queue that runs around a ring.
And so you do have to do a little bit
of that, and you'll have to resize, and
a resize is pretty straightforward.
So if you did have this situation in which
the tail is now where the head is at, and
you're trying to insert.
Well, all you have to do is start
at your head, go the length,
and write that into a new
larger capacity buffer.
And there you go,
you now have it rewritten in proper order,
your tail or your head, or let's see.
Now, no, your head will be at 0, your
tail will be at length, and there you go.
Now, you can just add 1 cuz you have
more capacity, everything is good to go.
So ring buffers are really
fantastic items.
Hopefully, this is just
an explanation point,
we're not actually gonna implement them.
But they are a really great list to know
you have, cuz inevitably, what's gonna
happen is you're gonna write something
like, let's say a log batcher, right?
You have a service which needs
the batch logs and then write logs.
The problem is logs need to maintain
order, and while you're writing logs,
new logs can come in.
So you can imagine something that doesn't
wanna take too long writing logs,
doesn't wanna do this.
You could use something like a ring
buffer in which every so long, every so
timer, it flushes 50 logs, 100 logs,
some amount of logs, all the logs.
You don't really care,
you just flush it, and
then you have something that can
keep on running while it's doing it.
And you don't even have to worry
about putting, say a mutex around it.
I know this is maybe a little too unsafe
for all the rustaceans out there,
because you don't write into memory that's
being used until your tail or your head or
your tail exceeds your head.
So you have this free space, you can
do some really cool operations with it.
You can make it super duper fast,
where you don't have to worry about some
of these read write operation problems.
Big fan of it, I like it, it's great.
Obviously, one of the problems is that you
will have to do a little bit of mutexing
around your tail index.
So you don't actually do
something that's bad.
We got one question.
>> Is it called a rain buffer?
>> A Ring Buffer, a Ring Buffer.
They're a lot of fun, and
you can use them quite a bit for
performance object pooling if you really
wanna use ring buffer for object pooling.
You can just use an ArrayList for
object pooling, cuz they don't
really care if they're created the last or
added to the pool last.
It's just like,
I just need a new object to reuse again.
And so you don't have to do that.
For those that don't know
what an object pool is,
say you have a service that creates a user
every single time a request comes in.
You're getting thousands upon
thousands upon thousands of requests,
why recreate this object over and
over and over and over again?
Just have an object, set new values on it,
use it for the service,
hand it back to a pool.
So that way, your memory doesn't go
like this, instead, it goes like that.
Just makes life a little bit easier.
And often, you can run into situations
where you don't get garbage collection
destroying your service,
blah blah blah blah.
Pools, they're great,
everyone loves pools, I love pools.